Hello, I am Alexey Nazimko. I am a marketologist, business coach and consultant in the field of event marketing and personal branding.
I am the author of the book Event Marketing. I teach at the Moscow Business School and I am a teacher of the MBA Communication Management program at the Academy of People's Economy.
Our course, created as part of the MBA Start program of the Moscow Business School, is called Event Marketing. It is dedicated to promoting brands through special events.
A little about the course. The first part of our course is called General Characteristics of Event Marketing.
It will be dedicated to the general parameters of this area, to what is event marketing, what is it different from event management.
We will look at the main types and forms of events, as well as the main principles of the success of special events.
The second part is dedicated to the methods of creativity in event marketing. It consists of two sub-parts.
First, we will get acquainted with the basic methods of creativity, learn to apply them to the development of creative concepts of special events.
The second part of this section will be dedicated to my author's concept of benchmarking for special events.
The third part of the course is called The Types of Events. We will look at the main differences of different types of special events, such as exhibitions, BTL, press conferences, corporate events, sponsorship and charity.
We will learn how to use them with maximum efficiency to promote your brand.
The fourth part of the course is called Events as a Project. We will touch on the managerial side of the matter, not only the marketing one.
We will learn about the project characteristics of a special event, how to set goals correctly, how to look for a contractor and measure the results of the event company's return.
Let's look at the categories related to the concept of event marketing. These are advertising, BTL, PR, training industry, training events, intensive training, entertainment marketing, empirical marketing and neuromarketing.
If we talk about the differences between event marketing and advertising, they are quite fundamental. Advertising is traditionally related to the direct impact on the consumer, and event marketing is based on the interactive forms of interaction between the consumer and the direct contact of the client and the brand.
BTL can be perceived as a narrow field of marketing communications, although, of course, BTL industry specialists claim for something more.
To put it more broadly, BTL industry in Russia is a distribution of free food in gastronomy or sampling. But in a broader sense, BTL can be attributed to any image events, presentations that promote the product.
Recently, it has been said that BTL has come out of the underline, has become a full-fledged technology. This is true. I must say that the spread of the event level in the BTL industry is quite large, from simple sampling, which is difficult to call an event in the full sense of the word, to full-scale advertising.
Public relations also claims to expand its subject area. Communication with the public in the narrow sense of the word can be perceived as a press event, if we talk about the event side of the issue. But, of course, any PR person is engaged in promotion, and in this regard, the work of a PR person is very often limited to the work of a marketer, an advertising specialist and BTL.
The training industry is also part of the event industry recently. But here you need to make certain differences, because, of course, educational events can also be called a corporate event. But it is still an educational event, and it is difficult to compare it in the form of, say, promotional events or corporate parties or presentations.
But if the training acquires some event forms, it becomes spectacular, it is taken out of the training audience somewhere outside, into the fields. If a team is formed, then it can be called a corporate event.
Entertainment marketing, empirical marketing, neuromarketing are rather not a direction of marketing communications, but a certain philosophy of marketing, certain approaches to the impact on the consumer. Entertainment marketing or show marketing, as some Russian marketologists have called it, is designed to either train the consumer or entertain him.
At the same time, entertainment is in the first place. If a company is holding educational seminars to bring consumers to the brand, then this is also done in some form of entertainment.
The concepts of empirical marketing and neuromarketing are close to entertainment, but entertainment marketing often emphasizes the use of art presentation tools for the brand, show, art, for marketing purposes.
Empirical marketing and neuromarketing are more narrow concepts. They imply a general marketing approach that includes the impact on the consumer's feelings. It is difficult to say how different empirical marketing and neuromarketing are, but the main idea is that we are immersed in the space of feelings.
We feel smells, we hear sounds, we experience tactile sensations when in contact with the brand, for example, with a package or with some object. And all this must be used to promote the brand without missing a single channel of impact.
As for the event side of the question, event marketing is often conceptualized through the concept of empirical and neuromarketing, saying that it influences the consumer's feelings and implies direct contact with the consumer and the brand.
An important question is how the concepts of event marketing and event management are defined. Some do not define it, some expand the concept of event marketing. For example, often event marketing is called an industry that promotes brands through special events.
But the traditional limitation is that event marketing implies marketing communication tasks, and event management is only a communication component. Very often when you communicate with professional event managers, you find that event managers who have been working in the industry for many years have not heard the word event marketing, if they did not deal with marketing tasks and if they did not require a marketing justification for the effectiveness of special events.
Events in event marketing. The category of events in event marketing is slightly different from the category of events in the usual word of use. It must be said that there are certain difficulties in translation, because the English event and the Russian event have slightly different meanings.
In Russian, we call the word event historical, epochal. As for the English word, the word event is narrower. The Oxford Dictionary translates it as something happened. Thus, the meaning of this word is fixed, that the event is aimed at some changes.
As for the historical events, there is a separate word in English. In this regard, when we translate event marketing, we increase the degree of significance and scale of these events. In this regard, we can say that the language leads us, and Russian event managers are the creators of the history of the brand woven from the events of special events.
Events in event marketing are such an event that changes the attitude of target audiences and the brand and has subjective significance in their eyes. The issue of the attitude of event marketing to integrated marketing communication is often discussed.
To be honest, I am very careful about the concept of integrated marketing communication, because it often does not give anything specific. Naturally, we must integrate something. Naturally, we must direct our marketing efforts to a single goal of promoting the brand, so that the situation of the swan does not turn out to be a cock and a crane,
when each event and each marketing idea promotes us in different directions. But at the same time, this is a very common position, and moreover, it differs depending on what we integrate with.
So, attentive readers of Kotler remember that there is an internal and external marketing environment of the enterprise, and the approach to integrated marketing communication can imply the integration of this external and internal marketing environment. This means that there is the same brand image for their own and, conditionally speaking, for others, for clients, potential partners, those who are outside and for company employees.
Within the framework of recruiting projects, it has recently become fashionable to combine these two directions. For example, if one of the top managers of a large company meets, say, with students, marketers or other specialists whom the company wants to attract to work, this very often gives a marketing effect.
The same applies to advertising in public places, which contains messages of a recruiting nature. This is also advertising for the brand itself. Thus, some events can integrate internal and external tasks.
In addition, there is an integration of a different kind, that is, the integration of various types of marketing communication, when we try to direct to the same task, say, advertising, communication with the public, special events and so on.
For example, the announcement in the press can imply publicity after the event, direct advertising, online promotion, and so on. In this regard, different types of marketing communication can intersect within one event project.
It is also necessary to remember that the basis of the integration of external and internal marketing environment and various ways of communication in event marketing is the brand platform. Therefore, any event marketer, just a marketer who wants to promote his brand through special events, must first look at the brand platform, and then formulate the goals of the event and look for the funds that will be appropriate and reasonable.
Let's talk about event classification. In fact, there can be as many options as you like, because the more criteria we find in the classification, the more types of events we can select. It all depends on what is significant to us.
But we can name some basic criteria that allow us to distinguish between one type of event and another. Naturally, they will be repeated depending on the criteria. Events can be divided by marketing environment into external and internal. Accordingly, we refer to external events, such as promotional promotions, BTL, advertising campaigns, press conferences, and to internal events, such as corporate events, intensive events, and so on.
There is another way of classification. By type of marketing environment, events can be divided into political, corporate, social, cultural, scientific, sports, and so on. In this case, the difference is made more by the tradition of organizing such events, by the nature of the target audience, and by the tasks, whether they are political, commercial, research, and so on.
Events can be divided by the nature of the participants' interaction into formal and informal. In this case, examples can be absolutely any, because today, in terms of changes in the business culture, many events that used to be thought of as exclusively formal acquire an informal nature.
We already hear calls from progressive marketers to organize shows from press conferences and business exhibitions, although these events used to be extremely formalized.
By the scale of the target audience, we can classify events into international, state, corporate, and micro events. We can refer to international events, such as international summits, international conferences, international level sports competitions, official state holidays, inaugurations, and other government events.
We can refer to corporate events, trainings, presentations, and other events that are most often interesting to event organizers. There are also micro events that we rarely mention, but nevertheless, they take place. These are business meetings, romantic dates, organizations of random coincidences, and raffles.
Raffles have become a trend for private events, and they are also very popular, despite the fact that they are micro events, and usually have a good budget.
According to marketing goals, events can be divided into fixed and achieved ones, and those aimed at changing the situation. If we want to fix the achieved results, we can organize a press conference or a corporate event that summarizes the results of long-term activities, say, within a year or half a year.
As for revolutionary events that are supposed to be radical changes, these are often events that are aimed at rebranding the company, or are associated with crisis communications. Something happened, and we need to somehow react to it, improve the image of the company, and so on.
We can also refer to the presentation of a new product, launching new brands, and so on. We can highlight several general principles of the success of special events. The first principle I called the unity and limitation of time and space.
On the one hand, this is quite obvious, because something is really happening somewhere, we call it an event, a number of people participate in the event, the event has a beginning and an end, but on the other hand, many eventers have already faced this situation when the event ceased to be an event due to the violation of this principle.
Why do we need the unity of time? The fact is that events exist only in the perception of the target audience. As they perceive it, so are the events, and so are their results. Therefore, we need the representatives of the target audience, participants of the event, to experience this event together, to experience it together, and to react to it together.
This is why we gather people together, and this is why we need them to be in common space and in common time. On the other hand, it is necessary that the space is limited. For example, imagine that you decided to hold a corporate party for 60 employees at the stadium.
When this event ends, your audience will simply scatter in this huge space, so some limitation is always necessary. The same applies to time. It is very important that a person perceives that there is a beginning of an event and there is an end to it. Many companies have already faced this.
I want to give an example. For example, in Siberia there is a festival of the alternative theater of Sibaltra. When this brand was launched, it was a festival that lasted about a week and included a lot of performances. But then the owners of this brand decided to commercialize it throughout the year.
As a result, the festival began to fade away, because there was no clearly allocated festival time. The performance was held all year under the brand Sibaltra. In this regard, the event brand fades away and the company turns into a purely promotional one that promotes alternative productions throughout the year. This should be remembered.
The second principle of success of an event is the principle of an attraction. There are different types of attractions. In art theory, this is well worked out. There is an attraction of ugliness, an attraction of disasters, an attraction of beauty. I wrote about this in my book.
But here we need to remember that whatever attraction we arrange for the consumer, we must surprise him with something. If the point of surprise does not come, then the event is not an event, it is just an event for a tick.
For example, when you come to a gastronome and see another sampling, again a promo for a girl, again a stand, again they offer you to try the product. Of course, as an event, you do not perceive it for yourself, it is just an episode. It can't surprise you.
On the other hand, if you see an unusual object, even an unusual growth figure in the same gastronome, then most likely you will be interested in it and you can even tell your friends about it, especially if you manage to involve the organizer of the event in some interaction.
The third principle is called the principle of mutual exchange. This is related to the psychology of the unconscious. The fact is that since ancient times in human society it has developed in such a way that we try to respond to what we have been done.
In general, it is very beneficial to do good to people in this regard, because if you, for example, stretch a person's hand, then assume that he will stretch it in response, otherwise it will be just rudeness. If you greet someone, then assume that they will greet you, and then ask who you are.
The same applies to special events. If you organize a good vacation for employees, or organize a good show for consumers, or engage in free training for consumers, presenting a new variety of computer technology, then usually you are paid for good.
Of course, there is no such strict rule that if, for example, a journalist came to a press event, he must make a publication. Moreover, the quality of the brochure does not always affect the publication activity. Nevertheless, if you organized something really interesting that your target audience liked, the chances of getting monetary return from this are greatly increased.
The fourth principle is the principle of ritualistic action. This is also a psychological factor of special events. The fact is that there is a festive stereotype. What is a holiday for the mass audience?
It is a disco, a performance of artists, a banquet, and so on. When we start organizing corporate events, we face a contradiction. The audience is waiting for one thing, and we need to surprise it and come up with something else.
In this regard, in order to create a truly interesting special event, you need to observe the balance of social rituals that are practiced, say, in the event of a business conference or a corporate holiday, and what you can offer your audience.
If you completely go into the ritual scheme, the event will cease to be an event and become an event for a tick. If you find something new, it is important not to get carried away, because by destroying social conventions, you can get out of the space of attention and interaction with your target audience.
The fifth principle is the principle of subjectivity. Events always exist in the consciousness of target audiences, as does the brand. This makes the concept of event marketing absolutely marketing and branding. If the event is perceived as significant to the target audience, then you can say that you have achieved what you wanted and the event is organized.
If this does not happen, then we have a regular event. We must always remember that in addition to the direct reaction of target audiences, this reaction can be designed in the future, when the event is already completed, and thus prolong the communication effect of the event.
What do I mean? Let's say people came to the event, they didn't like something there, and they had a negative impression of the event about the brand. Some time passes, and the details of what caused the negative are forgotten, and here comes the usual PR.
For example, you post good reviews of some participants of the event on the website, or you post information about the success stories associated with a particular event on a corporate website or in a corporate newspaper.
Seeing that there is a general idea of ​​a positive event, some representatives of the target audience, skeptical, begin to change their opinion, they begin to think, maybe something was really good, and so on.
Of course, the event should be high-quality, it should be planned so as not to cause a negative impression to the audience, but we must always remember that public opinion can also be designed, and events are not just some actions within the event, but all the space of perception of the brand and the event that exists outside the event when it is already completed.
The sixth principle of success is called the principle of dramatization. I think that event managers should learn from directors of theatrical productions, directors of films, writers, because any work of art has its heroes, has some development, has a climax, has a culmination, and has an effective ending.
The same characteristics should be used for a successful marketing event. Why is this necessary? Very often, the concept of an event in words is formulated. On the one hand, this is very difficult from the point of view of selling the event as a marketing tool, and on the other hand, it is difficult from the point of view of selling the event directly to its participants,
because the participant reads the announcements of the event, then he reads reports about the event, and he wants to be formulated in words, what was there, what happened, what was in the event so unusual.
If we think in terms of visual images, in the principle of making us beautiful, then we represent the picture of the event. This is very good, because then photos from the event can be posted on blogs, on websites, in newspapers, and the information effect can be prolonged in this way.
But the picture is always static, and in this regard, visual images are not self-sufficient for us. We can come up with an interesting design of the event, we can hold the event in an unusual place, and this is not bad in itself.
But if there is no internal dynamics, if there is no story that the participants of the event live through, then in the end we will simply have nothing to say about what happened.
The principle of dramatization is also important for communication with the press, because in addition to the visual image, the journalist needs to predict something about the event, something that happened there, something that made some changes.
In this regard, it is very important at the stage of planning the event to see its dynamics, its structural units, its composition, almost in the artistic sense, including the literary work, and to be able to formulate the concept of the event in words.
We move on to practical questions from the general understanding of the strategy of event marketing. We move on to the question of how to create the concept of special events and at the same time make them creative.
There are certain difficulties in the event industry, despite the fact that it grows by almost 25% every year, and there are more good events that can be told and written about.
This is due to several reasons, which cause a fairly low level of creativity in special events. First, this is the complexity of the organizational part of the event.
Years pass before the event manager goes from the task of organizing events to creative tasks. Especially when it comes to mass events, they include a lot of structural elements and it is quite difficult to coordinate internal logistics and events.
Now the event industry is at the stage when we already have good technology for organizing events and good event managers, and therefore we begin to think about how to make events truly interesting.
The second factor that affects the low level of creativity in the event industry is the ritualistic nature of the holiday. This is the holiday stereotype that I have already mentioned.
If there is a certain horizon of expectations from the target audience, then very often the organizers and organizers of special events simply go along the usual path of satisfying these needs and justifying these expectations.
Although in fact, you need to come up with something else to surprise the target audience, and this is what creative technology is for.
Another factor that reduces the level of creativity in events is low budgets. This thesis is quite controversial, because on the one hand, the limitation of budgets often makes you give up on many interesting ideas.
On the other hand, the limitation of resources is a trigger that triggers creativity mechanisms, makes company representatives and event agents come up with something really interesting.
This is often called KVN marketing, when creativity outweighs the budget of events. Indeed, we can look at the events produced by different companies and find that large corporations arrange rather trivial events, while small and medium-sized businesses are alluring and create interesting creative concepts.
This is why funky marketing and funky business are often primarily related to the post-industrial segment and primarily to small and medium-sized businesses.
Another factor that certainly affects the reduction of the level of creativity in events is that in any advertising agency there are already proven and worked out creative methods that are used to train employees, to come to work, to train advertisers.
But no one is preparing event managers, so they have to come up with these creative ideas on their own, without using special technologies. We already have them, and we will learn this during our course.
It is also important to note that the event itself assumes creativity, it separates it from the event, because it is creativity that creates the ability to surprise its target audience and make the event truly significant in their eyes.
There are quite a few creative methods, and the use of certain technologies depends on a specific person, on his or her personal preferences. Therefore, it is necessary to test various ways of generating creative ideas during training and choose what is most convenient for everyone. But without trying, we cannot find out about it. So, let's go!
Now we will consider a training case where we will train and develop creative ideas. This is the brand of Caterpillar clothes and shoes. Many of you know that Caterpillar produces working equipment, but in addition they have a promo brand and a separate direction of Caterpillar activities.
Caterpillar is a working clothing brand. If we describe the platform of this brand, we can say that it focuses on anti-glamour, utility and work aesthetics. These clothes and shoes have long gone beyond the framework of the purely work sphere, they are worn in everyday wear, and therefore the brand needs to expand its client base.
In addition to accessories and clothing items that exist constantly in collections, there are also seasonal collections that require promotion. The shows of the new Caterpillar collections and the presentation of these new collections will be the task on which we will work on our creative technologies within the framework of our training.
The first and perhaps one of the most common creative methods is brainstorming. Almost everyone has heard about it and almost everyone knows its basic rules. Just in case, we will repeat them. During a brainstorming, the versions are not criticized, they are only expressed, and only then discussed.
The time in the framework of a brainstorming is limited, and it is necessary to create as many creative ideas as possible within it.
The third rule of a brainstorming is that the criticism of all ideas is carried beyond the framework of the brainstorming itself and is carried out later. There are different types of brainstorming. Sometimes ideas are simply expressed verbally, and someone fixes them, and then there is a discussion.
But if you experience some organizational difficulties, if the members of the design group are inclined to interrupt each other and still proceed to discuss ideas, or feel some kind of uncertainty, then you can conduct a silent brainstorming, simply writing down your versions on pieces of paper and then only voicing them during the discussion.
We move on to the first task. We will need to come up with at least five ideas for the presentation of the new collection of the Caterpillar clothing brand. The recommended time for completing the task is 10 minutes.
I congratulate you on your successful completion of the task 1. I think you all have done it.
Let's see what answers could be given.
The answers that I and my trainees offer.
For example, you can attach the presentation of the Caterpillar brand to the day of spring labor, to May 1.
Another version suggests that you can give a stamp with a boot print of Caterpillar to the best partners who have left their mark on the history of the brand's development.
Another creative idea involves a presentation in the planetarium.
The future, which remains in the lives of earthlings, is recognized only by Caterpillar.
This is such a futurological concept of event promotion of this brand.
You can hold a presentation in a sandy quarry and pour champagne to guests using Caterpillar's work equipment.
This allows you to integrate the presentation of the brand's clothes and work equipment.
It is a reminder of the company's main specialization.
You can also hold a show of a new collection, which will be presented by the best workers, farmers of Moscow and Moscow region.
Thus, the company becomes the core of its target audience and can promote the work equipment and clothing brand at the same time.
Any creative technology has advantages and disadvantages.
The brainstorming is no exception.
The advantage of the brainstorming is that it allows you to organize the process of generating ideas.
Often, in an authoritarian leadership, conditions are created for employees to express their ideas, and not just follow their leaders.
This is also one of the advantages of the brainstorming.
At the same time, the brainstorming is not self-sufficient, because in its process we only record ideas,
but we have no idea what is happening in the space of the skull of the participants in the discussion.
The brainstorming creates some basic prerequisites for the creation of an idea, but does not affect the creative strategy of the participants.
We move on to the creative technology 6 hats by De Bono.
It is also well known.
Sometimes, the participants of the creative group really wear colored hats.
Sometimes they are just given roles.
The role of the white hat is to analyze the numbers and facts without passion.
The role of the black hat is to express negative judgments.
The yellow hat, on the contrary, expresses only positive judgments about any idea or concept.
The green hat is the role of the supposed creative beginning, expressing creative ideas.
The red hat expresses emotional reactions, and the blue one summarizes the results.
Task 2.
During the brainstorming, we received an offer to make a show of the new collection of caterpillars in a space style.
In the future, space colonists will recognize only the caterpillar.
Refer to this idea from the position of each of the 6 hats.
The recommended time for completing the task is 10 minutes.
We are testing the results.
I created several statements that can reflect the position of each of the 6 hats
regarding the futurological concept of the promotion of the brand Caterpillar.
The white hat.
The number of consumers of clothing and shoes Caterpillar, represented by the working class,
is decreasing along with the decrease of the working class itself.
The search for a new audience involves the use of popular masculine images,
which can be the image of the future presented in American blockbusters.
The final decision requires a comprehensive study,
a survey and a deep interview, and consideration of other alternatives.
We must responsibly approach the development of a concept
that involves large investments from the company's right holders.
The black hat.
Nonsense. Caterpillar is a working brand.
Working in the future? Let's say so.
Maybe in the age of high technology everyone will become Marxists
and wear it in solidarity?
Plus, to create a full-fledged legend, you need support from ELKA in communications,
advertising, product placement in the cinema, and so on.
One show is not enough for such a legend.
The yellow hat.
The idea is definitely good.
Worker aesthetics in Russia is associated only with the Soviet past.
There are fewer and fewer workers in the country.
To buy clothes, you need to attract office plankton,
and they see the world through a TV and a computer monitor.
You can't find the images of workers on TV and in the cinema now.
But there are characters like the heroes of the Fifth Element and The Matrix.
They are kind of in the center of high technology,
and kind of at the bottom.
Such a futurological tragedy.
Office boys can be carried away by Marxist ideas and any other revolutionary nonsense.
Their life is so boring that every cleric in his soul sees himself as a hero of the Fight Club.
The green hat.
Let's organize this in the Center for the Preparation of Astronauts.
The red hat.
Well, I don't know.
When I presented this event, I thought,
Wow, it might turn out great, but first I need to see it.
When I see it, I'll understand what it is like.
Maybe it will be a masterpiece, or maybe I won't like it at all.
The blue hat.
With all the pros and cons, I believe that the decision to develop a futurological legend is reasonable.
It can be implemented in real life after a detailed study of the concept
in case of approval by the majority of the votes in the Board of Directors.
Let's go back to the 6 hats technology and evaluate it from the point of view of possible advantages and disadvantages.
When you were doing this task, you probably noticed that it was difficult for you to identify yourself with this or that hat.
But you did it in writing, and in the situation of working discussion,
it is very often that this excessive unusuality of the form of discussion does not allow this technology to be implemented.
Many managers find it strange that they will wear hats or play some kind of role-playing game.
At the same time, there are undoubted advantages of the technology,
and they are related to the optimization of role-playing roles in the creative group.
Very often, an authoritative leader presses the group,
and as a result, the discussion is reduced to adopting the original strategy of the leader.
Therefore, in order to introduce an element of inequality in the discussion,
in order to be able to express different positions on a particular creative idea,
it is necessary to create some special conditions, special rules,
such as the De Bono method, the six hats, which allow you to relate to ideas from different sides.
On the other hand, you noticed that during the use of the six hats method,
the creative ideas themselves are not generated,
they exist in order to relate to the already existing concepts or ideas.
Therefore, the six hats technology is effective,
but it is effective in discussing strategies and in making management decisions,
and not in generating creative ideas.
We move on to the mental map method.
This is also one of the basic methods of creativity.
It consists of creating an association chain around an axiomatic word, a brand, or an event.
You see on the slide such a map.
The key word is associated with the arrows,
association 1, association 2, association 3, and so on.
In turn, from the association of the first order,
you can build arrows that lead us to the subsequent associations.
What is it for?
In order to create a meaningful field of the brand,
you need to see what it can be associated with,
and based on these associations, come up with a creative idea for a special event.
Task 3. Based on the mental map method,
make a tree of associations with the brand of the Caterpillar clothes.
The recommended time to complete the task is 7 minutes.
Task 3. Based on the mental map method,
make a tree of associations with the brand of the Caterpillar clothes.
We check the results.
You see on the slide a simple scheme.
It can be complicated.
The associations of the second and third order can be introduced.
So, there is Caterpillar, the basic association is a tractor, a working vehicle,
the second association is workers, the third association is a factory and labor.
Later we will see how this associative field can work
in the invention of creative strategies for special events.
The mental map method has its advantages and disadvantages.
The advantages can be attributed to the relative simplicity of the form.
You just draw a scheme on a sheet of paper,
and it makes you think about what the brand is associated with.
Undoubtedly, the mental map method pumps the creator's consciousness,
makes him see all the new possibilities of the brand conceptualization.
But there are also disadvantages.
Warming up is not the very generation of creative ideas.
The mental map method creates good prerequisites for creating an idea.
But it is not the very creation of the idea.
Therefore, having created a mental map of the brand,
you need to switch to other creative methods
in order to create a creative idea.
Another disadvantage of the mental map method
is that when the tree of associations is made,
the association is often owned by the creator himself,
a member of the creative group,
and not the target audience to which the brand is directed.
Therefore, it is very important to supplement this creative strategy
and think about what the brand is associated with.
What are the associations that are authentic for this brand,
and not for the creator, who has some individual features and associations?
We move on to the method of search for the opposite.
It is very simple.
If we were looking for direct associations within the mental map method,
then we will look for the concept of antonyms within the search for the opposite.
And the fourth task of our video training is formulated on the basis of this method.
Task 4.
Come up with a concept for presenting a new collection of Caterpillar clothes
using the technology of reverse associations.
Imagine something that is consonant and opposite to the working aesthetics of Caterpillar
and combine both components in the concept of a special event.
The recommended time for completing the task is 10 minutes.
We check the results.
This is the version that one of the participants of my training suggested.
He suggested organizing a collection show in some pathos place,
for example, in a historical building in the Baroque style,
invite VIP guests from the fashion world,
offer them an evening dress code.
At the same time, the entourage of the building and the image of the guests
will contrast very sharply with the collection shown.
On the one hand, this is a certain risk,
because there is a discrepancy between the target audience
and the core of the target audience of the Caterpillar brand in this case.
But nevertheless, this concept can be productive,
because it combines the opposite,
that is, glamour and anti-glamour,
the working aesthetics and the aesthetics of the social society,
high and low.
And in this regard, such a contrast will be remembered for a long time.
Let's recall the words of the hero Gérard Depardieu from the film
The Hotel. Harmony and contrast create beauty.
There are advantages and disadvantages of the method of opposite associations.
On the one hand, harmony and contrast,
what I was talking about, is always very impressive,
it is remembered by the target audience.
On the other hand, the associative thinking is somewhat more complicated here.
You probably noticed that it is much easier to perform tasks
using the mental cards method.
You are just looking for a direct association,
it happens quite involuntarily.
But when we are looking for something opposite
and combine it with what is already part of the associative field of the brand,
it is a slightly more complicated procedure.
I know from experience that some of my training participants
do not immediately cope with this task.
Therefore, if you did not succeed right away,
but having learned about a good option for this task,
you have some ideas, try to complete the task again.
In any case, this creative method is on par with the mental cards method,
because it involves combining direct and opposite associations with the brand.
The basic disadvantage of this technology, like many others,
is that this technology creates only the prerequisites for creating a creative idea,
not the idea itself.
Unfortunately, creativity is a great mystery,
so we are just trying to introduce some algorithms
to increase the probability of achieving the result.
Nevertheless, we cannot fully measure and prescribe the creative process.
We move on to the morphological analysis technology.
The word is familiar, we know the morphology in philological science,
in the science of words, it studies the structure of words.
There is a morphology of plants that studies the structure of plants.
Special events have their own structure and morphology.
In order to apply the creative technology of morphological analysis,
it is necessary to first decompose the object into components,
to see what the event consists of, what is included in it.
As a rule, these are the same components,
for example, sound, visual series, place where the event takes place,
time when the event takes place, target audience, and so on.
But specific forms of the event, for example, in our case,
this is a show of a new fashion collection,
specific forms of the event have their own specifics
and their own components that are integral.
So we identify these components, then we divide them into parts,
change one or more elements and carry out a new assembly.
And what we get is often an unpredictable option,
but this is creativity, when the expectations of the target audience
are combined with something new, fresh, with what the creator has invented.
Hence our next task.
Task 5.
Come up with a concept for presenting a new collection of Caterpillar clothes
using morphological analysis technology.
Imagine a visual image of the show,
divide it into components, change one of the components
and assemble the image together.
The recommended time to complete the task is 10-15 minutes.
Let's check the results.
In the slide you can see a standard version of the Fashion Pokaza device.
There is a background, which usually has the logo of the clothing company.
There is a podium, or a tongue, as it is called.
The models walk on it from the back.
On the sides, along the podium, there are the first rows of guests.
And at the end of the podium there are fashion photographers.
This is what the show usually consists of.
We can hardly change it,
but we can modify it somehow to make the show more interesting in form.
Here is the solution that was proposed by one of the participants of my training.
We replace the podium with a conveyor,
and the show hall with a hangar or a factory room.
We combine the resulting elements,
and we get a creative concept for a special event,
a Fashion Pokaza, which is transferred to the space of a factory workshop
or some production room.
This also creates a very interesting contrast,
because on the one hand, the world of fashion is, as a rule, a world of glamour,
and there is a certain audience of clothing shows.
On the other hand, this obvious anti-glamour contrasts with the expectations of the audience.
The morphological analysis has its advantages and disadvantages.
The advantage, oddly enough, is in the simplicity of the form.
You can't immediately understand how to do it,
but when a participant of the training heard at least one example,
solved at least one case,
he can usually apply the same technology to create a concept of special events for other brands,
because to decompose the image of a special event into a component that can change something
and put it all together is a rather simple thinking task.
In this regard, you can use this technology in a number of cases
when creating a concept of special events.
And, of course, this technology is very effective,
at least due to the fact that it is effective,
and this is really necessary for the event promotion of the brand.
Nevertheless, the question remains open,
is there an object that we can decompose into a component?
The technology was created as an inventor to create new, non-standard products and solutions.
For special events, the event is certainly not an object,
so we usually deal only with the subject environment
and modulate the visual appearance of the event to a greater extent than its dramaturgy.
In this regard, there are certainly disadvantages and shortcomings of morphological analysis as a creative technology.
We move on to the description of creative technology organized inside.
This is a very interesting and my favorite method.
The fact is that the brand is not in a certain vacuum,
and marketing tasks are also not in the middle of an empty space.
There are collective ideas of the target audience of the brand,
there are social practices that are typical for the brand audience,
and all this needs to be studied.
In order to come up with a creative strategy for a special event
that is authentically promoted by the brand,
you need to plunge into its semantic space.
To do this, you need to use the information sources that are somehow associated with the brand.
Inside is a technology that involves several basic installations.
First, the answer is already in our consciousness, we just have to extract it from there.
In principle, any person, using one or another creative technology,
can create a creative concept of a special event to a certain extent.
Therefore, you need to create the necessary conditions for this.
The second installation is that the information environment that you surround yourself with
can speed up the process of searching for a creative solution.
Task 6.
List as many information sources as possible that reflect the style of the Caterpillar brand.
The recommended time to complete the task is 7 minutes.
Checking the results.
These are the options that could be proposed in application to this task.
You can use various architectural forms for awakening creative ideas,
which are somehow associated with the traditions of the working environment,
industrial production, and so on.
It is necessary to remember that Caterpillar has its own legend,
so it is best to use American or at least foreign visual samples that will help you come up with an idea.
You can use, for example, albums that somehow reflect the Bauhaus style,
or the aesthetics of the architecture of brick factories of the early 20th century.
You can walk along the corresponding streets of Moscow or other cities,
where there are buildings with large windows, brick factory pipes.
In addition, it is necessary to remember that some architectural objects are already modified
and adapted for special events,
so such a walk can be quite productive in terms of organizational tasks.
You can use old photos from industrial and agricultural history, preferably foreign.
You can also try to use information sources that are somehow associated with the Russian Revolution,
with trade unions, and so on,
in order to borrow visual forms, ideas, quotes, and so on.
This is all the information environment that can push you to discover creative ideas.
In addition, you need to remember that the information you collect can be used
for the design of special events, for printing products, for the production of invitations,
for interesting options for finding music that is authentic to this event,
visual series, and so on.
There may even be smells and architectural space.
All this will undoubtedly help you create an interesting and memorable event.
As an advantage of the organized insight technology,
it can be called that it provides the creator with a meaningful and stylistic space of the brand.
You surround yourself with objects, sounds, and information sources that are authentic to the brand,
and this allows you to create a strategy that will meet the spirit and expectations of the target audience.
On the other hand, there are also disadvantages.
What if the sea has no weather? What if the idea doesn't come to you?
Like most creative technologies,
the organized insight creative technology is designed to push you to find a creative idea,
but it certainly does not guarantee that the idea will necessarily arise in your mind.
This can be added to the fact that a competent marketer is always trying to find some important information for himself.
He turns to sociological questions, he tries to go through and live the life that his target audience lives.
In order to expand the Caterpillar case, we can give another example from the field of child marketing.
If you are a marketer in a production that produces children's goods,
you may be interested in literature on child psychology,
which relates to that age period that your target audience represents.
You may be interested in the mechanism of decision-making,
about the purchase, how difficult it is for children's subcultures and parents to interact with each other,
who give their children money for certain acquisitions.
You may be interested in teenage magazines,
you may be interested in sociological studies on the child subculture, and so on.
All this information is productive in order to create interesting creative strategies.
And we move on to the next section.
It reflects the benchmarking technology.
Although very often stereotypical thinking is called the opposite of creativity,
nevertheless, creativity is fundamentally different from creativity.
First of all, it is the creator's institutions.
A creative person tries to think by embodying some commandments from above.
We often find this when we read memoirs of artists and writers.
He tries to create something fundamentally new.
As for the creator, he understands that it is difficult to create something fundamentally new,
so he creates something new based on the old.
And if there is a shift in the existing stereotypical pattern,
we are already dealing with creativity.
This is the right task that every specialist can set for himself.
Benchmarking is a very popular technology today.
It involves the transfer of a creative scheme or a management solution from one area to another.
I will give you an example.
Let's say you are the manager of a fast-food restaurant,
and you have problems with logistics,
how semi-finished products are brought, how they are prepared, how they are distributed to the buyer.
You look at what industries, what social spheres have similar problems.
And pay attention to the high-tech logistics scheme of airlines.
The plane arrives at the airport, and a very quick inspection is carried out,
the trays with breakfast, dinner, coffee, and so on are placed there very quickly.
And you can see how the general scheme is implemented.
When you bring this management solution scheme to some basic parameters,
you can try to replace the word airport with the word catering service,
or salon with the word restaurant,
and see if you can use similar techniques in your business.
Something similar happens in event marketing.
I am now working on the book "101 Case on event marketing",
and I conducted a fairly large-scale study,
monitoring several hundred Russian event companies.
And I found at some point that almost all creative solutions are similar to each other.
If we find something that surprises us,
then by way of obtaining a creative idea,
it may be similar to another concept of a special event, made for another brand.
All this is due to the fact that there are not so many creative strategies.
I suggest you familiarize yourself with some strategies for developing creative ideas for special events.
By transferring this creative scheme to the situation of your brand,
you will be able to see how you can implement your tasks.
The analysis of creative solutions in the Russian event industry showed
that all ideas can be divided into several types.
We will consider them, and at the same time we will see how the solutions that we have already received
within the framework of the Caterpillar case solution
could be achieved if we used benchmarking technologies.
As I said, different creative technologies can lead to the same solutions.
You just need to choose a convenient way for you.
The first benchmarking option is called an unusual object in a familiar space.
I have selected one of the recent examples for you.
This is a beer promotion called Kirin.
You can see a sumo wrestler in an inflatable suit
who performs some strange actions by sliding down the stairs on a bicycle.
Of course, in this case, the emphasis is on the fact that something unusual happens in the familiar space of the urban environment.
Therefore, both the passer-by and the passer-by immediately pay attention to this.
It should be said that the beer promotion Kirin used integrated marketing communications.
A promotional site of the product was created.
In addition to these creative actions that were carried out on the streets,
promoters recruited supporters of this brand, creating a club of fun pranks.
This is also a kind of event promotion of the brand.
Those people who joined the community formed around the beer site Kirin
could participate in a flash mob and play a game with someone from the familiar participants of this community.
Thus, the promotion continued, the information effect was prolonged,
and the sales figures show that the promotion was not in vain.
However, it is difficult to establish a correlation here,
because somewhere in the time period close to the promotion,
the prices for this beer brand were reduced.
Therefore, it is very difficult to establish a direct relationship between the promotion and the sales results.
Nevertheless, this is undoubtedly one of the good creative projects.
Another case of benchmarking is direct association.
You remember how we drew mental cards.
The associations of the first row, which are directly derived from our brand or product,
are the associations that are most productive in creating the concept of special events.
In this case, as an example, I bring the briefing of the mortgage department of Delta Bank.
This event was organized by one of the teachers of the Moscow School of Business, Inna Alekseeva.
The idea was to have informal communication between the journalists and the top managers of Delta Bank.
As you know, most press events are quite standard.
These are speaking heads, the presidium, the moderator, questions, answers.
In this regard, it is very difficult to find a creative solution.
In the slide, in the picture, you can see that the event was not very effective.
But if you include it in the context of a large number of gray and monotonous press events,
then, undoubtedly, it was creative.
First of all, everyone was in slippers, in Delta Bank's branded robes.
Journalists were able to take the Delta slippers with them.
Cats walked around the office.
In general, this home atmosphere was recreated.
Since this is a mortgage department, a direct association was carried out.
This is an example of a direct association.
All creative ideas built on the associations Caterpillar, the factory, workers, for example, moving the show to the workshop,
are applied to the Caterpillar brand, the case we were considering.
These are all ideas that represent the association of the first order.
The third type of benchmarking is grotesque.
As an example, I have brought a collective image.
This is the Paris agency, which belongs to Alexei Svestunov.
Alexei Svestunov built a whole business on the Russian book of Guinness records and on the setting of records.
Of course, the record can be artifacted in different ways, and it is not necessarily associated with the holding of a special event.
But in general, in some cases, an event is attributed to the setting of the record.
And of course, the record becomes an event if it is properly covered in the press and the information about it is brought to the target audiences.
Grotesque is used everywhere.
In the case of fat sumo wrestlers in inflatable suits, which ride around the city on bicycles, this is also a grotesque option.
It just so happened that in advertising and in promotion technologies, we must be convincing,
we must use such bright, exaggerated, poster forms of conveying our message in order to be heard.
We can give an example from the case we have already considered, the Caterpillar.
For example, if champagne is poured using construction equipment, this is a grotesque option, clearly exaggerated.
Or if we say that in the future space colonists will choose only Caterpillar, this is also a grotesque promotion option of the brand,
because it is associated with the revolutionary idea of ​​the victory of some one brand,
and revolution is always grotesque, it is always something very large-scale, powerful, and so on.
The next benchmarking option is the allocation of the aspect of everyday life.
Here, the technology of organized insight helps us a lot.
I said that it is always necessary to observe your target audiences and record their collective representations and cultural practices.
As an example of this benchmarking option, the action of the magazine Samaya was chosen.
You can see on the picture on the slide that about a dozen girls in the subway read the magazine Samaya.
Naturally, the rest of the passengers pay attention to this.
On the one hand, this is a bit grotesque, because not all women can read the same magazine,
the market offers us more variety.
On the other hand, this, of course, draws attention to itself, and it must be said that the action was successful,
although it had certain drawbacks.
It seems that it was authentic to the target audience,
middle-aged women go to work in the subway and read some kind of women's magazine.
On the other hand, the promo girls who were used to hold this action did not represent an age group of the target audience.
They were much younger.
In this regard, there was some contradiction.
On the one hand, the promo action itself corresponds to the spirit of the brand,
and on the other hand, those who represent the brand do not belong to the target group.
This is a natural obstacle, because we know that mostly young people work in the BTL industry.
The next benchmarking option is the unification of cultural practices.
As an example, I gave the musicals of the foreign language school Mr. English.
This is a case that has already received good publicity in Russian business media.
The idea is very interesting.
When we talk about learning a foreign language,
we can see a classroom, a group that performs some tasks, a textbook, a blackboard or a flip chart.
We reproduce an educational stereotype in our consciousness.
But in order to organize a special action that promotes educational institutions,
you need something more vivid.
The school leaders found this way for themselves.
They began to organize musicals in foreign languages and turned it into a separate business.
A separate promotional site was created for the musicals of the Mr. English school.
Several musicals have already been staged.
Target auditions are held.
Groups are working in which participants are trained.
This is a very good promotion option,
because it allows to attract a large enough audience,
to attract friends of the participants, their parents.
This is also a loyalty program.
Therefore, this is a very spectacular and bright option,
especially applicable to the educational institution.
If we talk about the example of the Caterpillar case, which was in our decisions,
then any contrast between various cultural practices, fashion, work, everyday life,
all creative decisions based on this contrast can be attributed to this type of benchmarking.
The next benchmarking option is the event potential of the brand.
This is how it is called.
The fact is that very often the brand is already included in some social practices,
which are associated with events and special events.
As an example, I brought the Sergei Pupynin carriage salon.
This is a rather interesting and unusual business.
Carriages for carriage riding are produced.
They are produced in Poland, but the brand is Russian.
Sergey Pupynin is the descendant of the dynasty of manufacturers of these carriages for carriage riding.
As an event promotion, this brand was chosen as a sponsor for the competition on carriage riding.
In this case, this is one of the most obvious examples
when a brand already has an event with which it is closely related,
and the decision to promote it through event marketing is of course asked.
The example from the Caterpillar case is very simple.
If it is a fashion show, then it is a fashion show,
and in this regard, the form has already been found.
The question is how to make it more attractive and interesting.
Another way to promote a brand with benchmarking is to sit down with the event.
Sometimes there are some changes in society,
or the expected holidays are coming,
or some important events in political and cultural life are taking place.
If the brand of this event does not have a clear right holder,
then you can tie your brand to it using a seasonal or other event conjuncture.
Many people do this, although this method of promotion is often associated with legal disputes.
As an example, I gave the corporate event of the company Megatron,
which was called Megavidinia.
This is a very large-scale event.
It was held in Turkey, where the staff was brought to the intensive care unit.
The professional director, the event's director, worked there.
You know by the name that Megavidinia is associated with Eurovision,
but the first part of this word is associated with the company itself, with its name.
The employees of the company presented themselves as real stars.
Special groups were created, like rock and pop groups,
which performed works associated with corporate history
and the specific activity of the company Megatron.
As an example, we can give the group Vulcan Strastei.
You know that Megatron is the owner of the casino Vulcan and the mountain halls.
In this case, you can refer to the Internet source.
There is a promotional site of this group, vulcanstrastei.narod.ru.
A separate team was created, which could be used in other promotion programs,
combining the internal and external marketing environment of the company.
As an example of the case Caterpillar,
you can bring a creative idea,
tie the show of the new Caterpillar collection to the day of spring and labor.
The task 7 will be a little longer than the previous one.
It will take you about 20 minutes to complete it.
It sounds like this.
Use the listed types of standard creative benchmarking strategies
to create a concept of event promotion of your company's brand.
It is always difficult to switch from a textbook example to a real one.
But we will remember that Caterpillar is also a real brand.
If you can create some interesting creative ideas
based on benchmarking technology for your company,
you can use this experience tomorrow.
Thank you.